---
title: Vue-cli basics
layout: post
use_toc: true
excerpt: Basics of @vue/cli.
---

> # This page is currently work in progress.

## @vue/cli

@vue - https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/tree/dev/packages/%40vue

### CLI

The CLI (`@vue/cli`) is a globally installed npm package and provides, 
 - the `vue` command in your terminal,
 - the ability to quickly scaffold a new project via `vue create`,
 - instantly prototype new ideas via `vue serve`, or
 - you can also manage your projects using a graphical user interface via `vue ui`.

### CLI Service

The CLI Service (`@vue/cli-service`) is a development dependency. It's an npm package installed locally into every project created by `@vue/cli`.

The CLI Service is built on top of webpack and webpack-dev-server. It contains:
  - The core service that loads other CLI Plugins;
  - An internal webpack config that is optimized for most apps;
  - The `vue-cli-service` binary inside the project, which comes with the basic `serve`, `build` and `inspect` commands.

### CLI Plugins

CLI Plugins are npm packages that provide optional features to your Vue CLI projects, such as Babel/TypeScript transpilation, ESLint integration, unit testing, and end-to-end testing. It's easy to spot a Vue CLI plugin as their names start with either `@vue/cli-plugin-` (for built-in plugins) or `vue-cli-plugin-` (for community plugins).

When you run the `vue-cli-service` binary inside your project, it automatically resolves and loads all CLI Plugins listed in your project's `package.json`.

Plugins can be included as part of your project creation process or added into the project later. They can also be grouped into reusable presets. We will discuss these in more depth in the Plugins and Presets section.