---
title: Deplying NuxtJS app to Azure with continous deployment
layout: post
use_toc: true
excerpt: How to deploy a NuxtJS app to Azure with continous deployment
---
> # This page is currently work in progress.

## The distribution files you need
The folders and files that need to be in the `wwwroot` folder: 
- `.nuxt/` - The `.nuxt` folder generated by running `nuxt build`.
- `static/`
- `server/`
- `nuxt.config.js`
- `package.json`
- `web.config` - The config file for Azure web app for Nuxt to work. Azure will create one if it's not supplied but the default one won't work for Nuxt. I used [this one](/assets/scripts/web.config). 


## Set up continuous deployment using Kudu 
[Kudu](https://github.com/projectkudu/kudu) is the engine behind git/hg deployments, WebJobs, and various other features in Azure Web Sites. 

It connects to a particular branch in your repository and watches changes to it. Upon detecting a change, it will fetche the code from your repository into the "repository" folder on the server. It'll then looks for a `.deployment` file which can trigger a custom deployment script `deploy.md`. 

The two additional files are: 
- `.deployment` - [Deployment configuration files](https://github.com/projectkudu/kudu/wiki/Customizing-deployments#deployment-file) let you override the default heuristics of deployment by allowing you to specify a project or folder to be deployed. It has to be at the root of the repository and it's in .ini format. For example, it can be, 
    ```
    [config]
    command = deploy.cmd
    ```
- `deploy.cmd` - The custom script that builds your project and copy the distribution files to the webroot. The file I used can be downloaded [here](/assets/scripts/deploy.cmd). 

## Set node and npm version in Azure web app
1. Check the supported runtime environments by,
   - Using the Kudu service in your web app, or 
   - going directly to https://_your-app-name_.scm.azurewebsites.net/
2. Set the version of node by, 
   - adding `WEBSITE_NODE_DEFAULT_VERSION` to the application settings in the Azure portal. See https://github.com/projectkudu/kudu/wiki/Configurable-settings#change-the-node-version
3. Verify the node version and npm version by, 
   1. going to Kudu > console
   2. run `node -v` and `npm -v`


## References: 
1. "How to deploy on Azure Portal" - https://nuxtjs.org/faq/deployment-azure-portal
2. Kudu - https://github.com/projectkudu/kudu/wiki